Over the last few weeks,
we have worked with Power Query for
cleaning and preparing our data and
Power Pivot for performing
powerful data analysis in Excel.
These new tools introduce us to new
approaches in working with data on a whole
new range of functions in the DAX library.
It is quite a lot to learn, but
here's some really great news.
We are actually learning two tools for
the price of one.
Power Query and
the data model also form the heart of
Microsoft's business intelligence
tool called a Power BI.
And for the final phase of our analysis,
plating up and
presenting our analytics, we're going
to introduce you to this amazing tool.
So what is Power BI?
Power BI is actually a collection of
services that allow us to model, analyze,
and visualize data.
The main tool for
achieving this is Power BI Desktop, and
that is what we will be
focusing on this week.
Power BI Desktop is a free tool that
can be downloaded for Windows 32 or
64 bit platforms.
Power BI Desktop allows us to connect to
data from an almost unlimited range of
sources, including Excel, SQL databases,
cloud services, and even Salesforce.
Power BI uses Power Query to get and
transform the data, and
then loads it into the same database
engine used by Power Pivot,
where we can build a data model.
In Power BI Desktop with
a little help from DAX,
we can create stunning interactive
reports with a much bigger selection of
visualizations than Excel
pivot tables offer.
And tools better tailored for
creating a visual experience.
Having created these stunning reports,
we will probably want to share them.
Microsoft provides two platforms for
hosting finished Power BI reports.
The Power BI service, which is
an online software as a service portal,
accessible through PowerBI.com.
And the Power BI reports server,
which is an on premises application
that an organization can host
on their own infrastructure.
The Power BI service is the most
widely utilized option and
in turn has three licensing options,
free, pro, and premium.
But even to access the free option,
you will require a company or
educational log in.
For more details on this,
check out this week's toolbox.
In our last video, we will have a quick
look at how to publish to the server and
create a dashboard.
But this video is one you can just
watch and don't need to work alongside.
This week, we will cover
getting started with Power BI,
building report in Power BI Desktop,
working with Power BI reports,
adding a calendar table using DAX, time
intelligence and predictive analytics,
and finally creating a dashboard
in the Power BI service.
Before getting started this week, please
follow the link in this week's material to
download and
install the Power BI Desktop app.
Now get your exercise files and
get fired up,
because we've got one
more great week to go.
[SOUND]